>>>>[THEME MUSIC] And I think
many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, and back
with us is Frank Joseph Hoff.
He is, of course, the president
of Atlantis Publications,
and he's a researcher.
In our first program, we
talked a lot about Lemuria.
In this program,
we're going to talk
about the very
mystical Atlantis.
That has captured everybody's
imagination, Frank, hasn't it?
>>FRANK JOSEPH HOFF:
Oh, it sure has,
and that's gone back
way back through time.
Yes, it's a riddle.
>>NOORY: Was it that because of
Plato we knew about Atlantis?
>>HOFF: That's where we
originally heard about
Atlantis, is through
Plato, or "Pla-teau,"
through his two dialogues,
called the Critias and Timaeus
Dialogues.
>>NOORY: Where did he
say Atlantis might be,
and does that jive with
what you've uncovered?
>>HOFF: Well, there's a lot
of confusion about that,
and it's a misinterpretation of
his two dialogues, the Critias
and Timaeus Dialogues.
And a lot of people think
that if it was Atlantis,
it has to be located in
the Atlantic Ocean, but not
the Atlantic Ocean as today.
What we found out is that it was
located in the Atlantic Ocean
as it was basically close
to 11,600 years ago.
>>NOORY: OK, what do you
think happened to it?
>>HOFF: Well, we've done
some research on this,
and we found out that there
were several things that
were going on at the time.
First of all-- and I know
you'll be interested in this--
there was a War of
Atlantis, and that
was some of what ended up
causing some of the problem
here.
>>NOORY: High-tech war?
>>HOFF: It was a high-technology
war, but it was not only that.
But we also had some natural
events that were going on, too,
and what I'm speaking
about here is
on actually the opposite
side of the world.
And that's where
the confusion is
because the Atlantis Ocean, or
the Oceans of the Atlanteans,
used to be a worldwide ocean.
It circumnavigated the globe.
In fact, that's what you can
do from one ocean to the other,
even today, and that scientific
term is called terminus.
And so whether it be
the Pacific Ocean,
or it would be the Atlantic
Ocean, or the Indian Ocean,
you can travel from
one ocean to the next.
What happened in all
this confusion is
that we-- and this even
goes back to Columbus--
we found out he was looking
for Atlantis for the kings
and queens of Europe.
>>NOORY: It was
gone, though, right?
>>HOFF: Yeah, well,
to a large extent,
because if you recall
from your school days
is that he was looking
for the East Indies,
by the way, not the West Indies,
which is like the Caribbean.
He was looking for
the East Indies,
but, again, we found out he was
looking for that for the kings
and queens of Europe.
And he ran into the Americas,
and that's where it dead ends.
And, really, if you
were probably in school
and you were wondering,
whatever happened
to this idea of finding the East
Indies-- because after they ran
into the Americas, they found
out shortly after that they
weren't in the East Indies.
And my thought question
has always been,
whatever happened to this idea
of looking for the East Indies?
Where are those at?
And if you probably stood up in
school and asked this question,
they'd probably tell you to
sit down and shut up, you know,
because either they
didn't know or they
didn't want to tell you.
So what we found out
is that originally
an explorer by the
name of Vasco Balboa.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm, I know the
name from my school days.
>>HOFF: Right, he supposedly
discovered the Pacific Ocean,
didn't name it.
Another explorer, by the
name of Ferdinand Magellan,
ended up seeing it down
through the Magellan Strait,
down by Chile and Argentina,
actually through Argentina
and Chile, and he saw it as a
very calm and passive ocean.
So he named it from the
infinitive Portuguese
and Spanish word
called pacificar,
and depending how you
use it in a sentence,
they shorten it to either
pacifico or pacifica.
And we dropped the A or
the O and named it Pacific,
and it stuck.
And so that adds
confusion to everything,
and also where the
Atlantic Ocean is today,
instead of changing
that name to, let's say,
the English Ocean
or something like
that, they left it as Atlantic.
And then the Indian
Ocean, which got changed,
was actually
Atlantean Ocean, too,
if that name would have
been left the same,
it would have been a lot easier.
But it also got changed
to the Erythraean Sea
before it got changed
to the Indian Ocean.
>>NOORY: When Atlantis happened,
imploded, what happened to it?
>>HOFF: Well, what we found
out is a couple of things,
just ending up on this,
is that we found out
that Atlantis was-- and this
is a highly encoded word
in the word Atlantis, itself,
which is a Greek word--
but it's actually
in three languages.
One is Sanskrit, the
ancient language of India,
and then also the
language we found out
that Atlanteans
spoke themselves,
which is called Dravida,
which is Dravidian, and then
also in ancient Greek.
And Professor Santos, that's
Professor Arysio Santos, who--
>>NOORY: Author of
these works, right?
>>HOFF: Author of the works
who I'm following up with.
>>NOORY: By the way, this
is the English version
of Atlantis, right, by him?
>>HOFF: Yes, exactly, he found
out and was able to decode it
that this word, Atlantis,
it not only just
has Atlas in it, which is
the person that was a pillar
and holding up the skies before
they fell down in a sense,
but he found out it
was highly encoded
and that it meant antipodal.
And that word
means it's actually
on the opposite
side of the world,
but it also means more that it's
in a sunken or marsh, mountain
land on the opposite
side of the world.
So it's highly encoded
that way, that it
means that it's located
in the furthest west
if you're looking from one
side of, like, say, Europe,
but also to the furthest
east if you're looking
on the other side of the world.
And that location ends up
being in this sunken mountain
marshland in the area of
Southeast Asia in Indonesia.
>>NOORY: OK, where
Lemuria is, same area.
>>HOFF: Same idea.
>>NOORY: Were they
one and the same?
>>HOFF: Basically
one and the same,
now that's just a matter
of having to rebuild.
As I mentioned on a
previous program with you,
Lemurian Atlantis ended
up getting destroyed
by the Toba volcano, the Tobal
super volcano, a caldera one,
about 74,000 or
75,000 years ago,
well documented, by the way.
But they had to
rebuild, and they went
in this valley area of India.
And so they got chased out
of some other areas in India,
but had to go to the
place that was still,
you know, habitable,
even after Lemurian--
>>NOORY: So they all went down
about the same time period?
>>HOFF: No, what happened is
they ended up rebuilding over
60,000 years back to
basically the same spot where
Lemurian Atlantis was.
>>NOORY: All right,
Lemuria came first, right?
>>HOFF: Lemuria came first.
The other one in a
sense is the second one.
It was maybe over
in India where they
had to rebuild for a
while, but they came back.
But they rebuilt over a
period of 60,000 years,
and you can imagine
how advanced they
would be after that period
of time to Atlantis proper.
>>NOORY: And then
what happened again?
>>HOFF: The next volcano
went off, called Krakatoa.
The Krakatoa actually means
in the language, or Krakatoa--
>>NOORY: Is that near
the Canary Islands?
>>HOFF: No, this is
in Indonesia on what
was between the island of Java,
or as they pronounce Andravida
still in Bahasa,
Indonesia, it's "Jawa."
And that's separating
what is now
Sumatra and Java,
which used to be known
as Upper Java and Lower Java.
And the word, Krakatoa,
means to saw or saw in half,
so it's right through
the Sunda Strait.
>>NOORY: How would
somebody, Frank, like Plato
pick up the story of Atlantis?
How would that get to him?
>>HOFF: Great question, George,
and we traced this one back,
too.
Plato actually picked
up the information
from a discussion of
some contemporaries that
were going on with Saul
and the great lawmaker
or giver of Athens.
And he, in turn, learned of
it from the Egyptian priests
when he was on
vacation over in Egypt,
but we found out further that
the Egyptian priests learned it
from the Hindus.
And then the Hindus
in turn learned of it
from the Atlanteans, themselves.
>>NOORY: That's how
it got passed through.
>>HOFF: That's how it got passed
along and diffused, and then,
of course, Plato, or
"Plat-eau," picked it up.
>>NOORY: In Indian texts, they
talk about flying machines,
the vimanas.
Is it conceivable that,
at least on Atlantis,
they had flying machines?
>>HOFF: At least
on Atlantis proper,
before it got destroyed by the
Krakatoa or Krakatau volcano,
they had the flying
machines, the vimanas,
and I've mentioned this on
your "Coast to Coast" show,
that they could really deliver
huge populations and even had,
like, parks or environmental
parks onboard the aircraft.
And so they were very
advanced technology,
but again, they had
a worldwide calamity
that took place, a
conflagration, and because
of the super Krakatoa volcano,
which is a caldera volcano.
And this really
decimated the whole area.
>>NOORY: Which is what we have
at Yellowstone, by the way,
same kind of thing.
>>HOFF: The same
kind of volcano.
It's extremely powerful.
It's not like the one we
have up in Washington state
called Mount Saint Helens.
It went off on May 18th, 1980.
>>NOORY: That's not a caldera.
Caldera, it looks like an
inverted volcano, right?
It's kind of underground.
And you can see the cone, but
it's around ground surface,
right?
>>HOFF: Yeah, it's more like
a submarine type of a volcano,
and it's got a lot more force.
As a matter of fact,
Professor Santos-- and that's
Professor Arysio
Nunes dos Santos--
was a nuclear physicist
and a nuclear engineer.
He also, as I mentioned
before, spoke 14 languages.
He taught in the
disciplines of archeology,
anthropology, even occultism.
Even though he
didn't necessarily
want to be an occultist, he had
to learn the hidden meanings
and derivations behind things.
But because he was also
a nuclear physicist
and took all these
other disciplines
and uncovered the
riddle of Atlantis,
he found out that that power
of the Krakatoa went off
was something like
releasing a million atom
bombs like that went off in
Hiroshima, a million times
the power.
>>NOORY: Jeez, huge.
>>HOFF: And then not only
that, the other thing
he found out, too, and
I mentioned about this,
is the War of Atlantis that was
going on between the Dravidas
on one side and also the aerial
Semites on the other side.
>>NOORY: With high
technology, right?
>>HOFF: With high
technology, we're
using tactical nuclear
weapons, but also one side
thought they were going to
get one up on the other side.
Because they were
at war, they decided
to end up dropping a nuclear
type of mechanism, bomb,
down in and around
the Krakatoa volcano,
and it ended up going off--
>>NOORY: That's what set it off.
>>HOFF: --much
worse than what they
thought it was going to go off.
They just thought
they were going
to get ones up and
almost destroyed
the whole world
and all humanity.
>>NOORY: So this war was pretty
darn violent, wasn't it, Frank?
>>HOFF: Yes, because they
held it in some places
were actually even the nuclear
signatures are there today,
and one is over in the Indus
Valley area of Harappa, which
is like between
India and Pakistan.
It was more India at the time,
I think more Pakistan today.
And it's not just us saying
it, like, Professor Santos
and myself, but
these are reports
that have come out where
they've taken Geiger counters
and measured abnormal radiation
type of, you know, detection
there, and also in another place
called Mohenjo-daro as well.
And this is nothing
you can fake.
It has a half-life
daughter products
and a nuclear
signature, and so it's
something that shows that there
was something going on there.
Also in the area of
Indonesia, too, I'm
not sure so much
about the signature
there, but also over in
Mesopotamia and Sumeria
there have been
signatures there.
And there's maybe some
other places in the world.
>>NOORY: What's the
message for mankind today,
looking back at things
that happened to Lemuria,
Atlantis, high-technology wars?
It sounds like it
could happen today.
>>HOFF: Yes, the
message is here, too,
that we need to be careful
what we're doing and getting
along with one another.
We need to respect
to each other.
This whole project that I'm
working on is about humanity,
not just for some people on
Earth, but all people on Earth,
and we need to really come
back to respecting each other
and to respecting each
other's views on maybe science
and religion and, let's say,
even politics and things.
And also people need to be
accountable for their actions,
too, so this is
the kind of thing
when things get out
of control and people
don't respect to each other
or respect to other people's
religions and things
like that and also
governments maybe not
respect each other.
It goes that way socially.
You run into these
things, so these
are the lessons I
think we can learn
from, let's say, maybe not
so much Lemurian Atlantis,
but especially Atlantis proper.
>>NOORY: If we don't learn,
are we going that way?
>>HOFF: Well, as
Professor Santos mentions
on a little video we've
had up on our website--
and this also I think is maybe
it's Albert Einstein that
mentioned it-- we could end
up going back to the Iron Age,
you know?
If we have a nuclear war or
something like that, I mean,
it could wipe everything
out on this planet
and, you know, hardly any
resources or anything much
left.
I mean, you'd have to
start from ground zero,
and actually one of
the biggest inventions
that started all this was
agriculture and animal
domestication.
>>NOORY: I mean, they were
geniuses, weren't they?
>>HOFF: Look.
It may seem simple today
for agriculture and animal
domestication, but
it's really not.
It's really the
biggest scientific
or invention of
all time because it
allows you to be
fixated to the land,
between agriculture and
animal domestication.
By the way, they were also
into doing genetic engineering
as well.
>>NOORY: Wow, they're
way, really advanced.
I had always heard
that Atlantis might
have had some kind of
huge crystal on it,
and something happened
with that, too.
Did you ever hear that?
>>HOFF: I've heard this before.
That's going to be some
additional research that I'm
going to have to get into.
So far, what Professor
Santos and I have released
is probably only about
10% of the information.
We got, like, 90% to go.
And as I mentioned, you know,
we're not going away on this.
We're going to get to
the bottom of this.
I mean, I just want to
let your listeners know.
We are going to get
to the bottom of this,
and I am going to
release this information.
It's been held secret for
11,600 years, plus and more.
>>NOORY: You want
it out, don't you?
>>HOFF: I want to get it out.
It's not just I want it out.
Professor Santos wanted it out,
and also, more importantly,
the Atlanteans, themselves,
our ancient ancestors, they
want it out.
Our information, our message
to us-- and I'm the messenger
to do this now, as
Professor Santos was--
is to get this information out
to the public, to the world.
And finally, after
all this time,
there were reasons
for keeping it secret.
They didn't want the area
pillaged and plundered.
It's a holy land.
It is actually the holiest
land in the world, not
the Middle East.
This is the original holy land.
>>NOORY: This is the
cradle, wasn't it?
>>HOFF: Of the civilization,
where civilization
began, not necessarily
where maybe humans were,
because that is a migration
going back from Africa where
they began, but they used
to migrate back and forth
from Africa to the
area Southeast Asia,
depending on
climatic conditions.
Again, this is the middle
of the Pleistocene ice age,
and the only thing that ended it
was the Krakatoa volcano going
off.
And how it ended it is
because we found out
that all the fly ash eventually
from the Krakatoa volcano
came down on the glaciers,
and we had a as much
as a two-mile-high sheet of ice
here in North America as well
as other areas of the world.
And what happened is that
when the fly ash came down
over a period of time
on those glaciers,
it ended up absorbing
the sunlight.
And this absorption
versus reflection
is called, scientifically,
the albedo effects.
This is not just us saying this.
We actually found out that
NASA confirms this as well.
And in our book on Atlantis,
we have some book links
on our website at
www.atlan.org, and it's
the number 12 book link has
a link to the NASA website,
confirming this.
And then when all that
glacier water went off,
it ended up going
into the oceans.
>>NOORY: Why is
this kept so secret?
I mean, what's the
big deal about this?
What are they hiding?
>>HOFF: Well, again, they want
the area not to become pillaged
and plundered as
far as that goes
and desecrated because of
all the riches of Atlantis.
There's the gold,
the silver, the tin,
the zinc all these
strategic metals,
also all the spices in the
woods and everything like that.
>>NOORY: They would
pillage it, too.
>>HOFF: And they
would pillage it
because they need it
for the wars and battles
because the Atlanteans
from Atlantis proper
were actually weakened.
And they had to disperse
into other areas,
and this valley civilization
was one of them, also
over to, let's say, Sumeria
and Mesopotamia, Turkey,
where they have Gobekli Tepe,
you found out information
going on, very ancient there.
That's when they went over
there later, also into Egypt
and so on, and also to other
parts of Europe as well.
The other route, they
were a seafaring people.
They ended up going
down to the Americas.
In this case, they had to
go down to lower latitudes
because the Pleistocene
ice age was still ending.
So they went into
Ecuador and Peru,
where there's probably
more archeological ruins
than any place in the world.
The Machu Picchu in
Peru, that is basically
an Atlantean type of site.
In other words, the terracing
to control all the water and all
the erosion and
everything on that site
is all Atlantean-type
technology, not necessarily
directly passed
on, but indirectly
over a period of time
through all their relatives,
in other words, the sons,
the daughters, the grandsons,
you know, and the
great-grandsons and all
of this, all the way
down, and passing that
on through the fallen
angels or civilizing heroes,
the Quetzalcoatls and Kukulkans
and all these people that
ended up going down
there that ended up
infusing this ancient
technology information
into the indigenous populations.
>>NOORY: With your
permission, can we
use a little bit of that clip
of Professor Santos that's
on your website?
>>HOFF: Sure.
>>NOORY: Let's
take a look at it.
Well, that's pretty
fascinating, and I'm
glad you had subtitles there.
Tell me about the
Atlantis Cross.
What is that?
>>HOFF: Well, there
is an Atlantis Cross,
and we have a picture up
on the screen of that.
This is a very
sacred symbol cross,
and also I'm wearing one here.
>>NOORY: You are.
That's right.
>>HOFF: But this
one here is an ankh
that you usually see in
Egypt, but actually it's
not originally from Egypt.
It went over to the
Hindus in India,
and actually it was an
Atlantean Cross originally.
A lot of people don't
know that, but we
were able to track that down.
But this here is the
original Cross of Atlantis,
as you see on the screen there.
And that particular
cross denotes
where the location
of Atlantis is
and also where the location
even of the capital
city of Atlantis--
>>NOORY: Like a map?
>>HOFF: It's like
a map-- but it's
highly symbolic and coded--
that points to the direction
where it is in this world.
And here is the deal.
It not only denotes all the
different canals and everything
of the capital city of
Atlantis, because there
is a continent of Atlantis.
And it was a continent,
not an island.
The island was the capital city
with all the concentric rings.
>>NOORY: It was huge.
You were telling me
before we started taping,
as big as the United States.
>>HOFF: With Alaska
and Hawaii combined,
actually probably even
bigger, but this cross
denotes the capital city but
also denotes the location.
All the big ships used
to come into port.
See, the original Pillars
of Hercules was not, like,
over in Gibraltar.
They were actually between
Lombok and also Bali,
the islands of Lombok and Bali,
and going down the Wallace Line
into the capital city.
That's where it is.
And so they had to have
these deep channels to get
all the big ships into port.
This also denotes the
latitude and longitude
of the location of Atlantis.
They had a population of
more than 20 million people.
>>NOORY: But you have to
decipher that, don't you?
>>HOFF: Right, and we deciphered
it because the latitude still
goes through there
today, through what
is now known as Sumatra
at zero degrees latitude.
But what we also found out--
and it's changed over time--
is that the meridian,
the longitude today,
actually goes through
Greenwich, England.
And the reason is
by convention, also
because they were the
most powerful navy
in the world at one.
>>NOORY: It was
all over the place.
>>HOFF: Right, but that
meridian wasn't there all along.
What we found out, previously,
it was in Paris, France.
>>NOORY: How did it change?
>>HOFF: By convention, they
thought that by convention they
changed it over
to Paris, and that
was before it went to England.
Now, before it went
to Paris, it ended up
being in the Canary
Islands because they
thought the Canary Islands,
in this case, was Atlantis.
And this goes back a
while on the timeline,
and then before that,
maybe someplace else,
but before that, Atlantis.
>>NOORY: Will we ever find
Atlantis definitively?
>>HOFF: Well, here's the
rest of that, George,
about definitively.
We also found out the
longitude ended up
going over Sumatra as
well, so it ended up
being at zero degrees latitude
and also zero degrees longitude
before they changed it around.
>>NOORY: What's that mean to us?
>>HOFF: That means
X marks the spot,
and it was right over what
is now still Sumatra today.
And that's where
they could actually
live in the middle of
the Pleistocene ice age,
close to the Equator,
and at the same time
have all the agriculture and
invention and the climate
and the precipitation
and the soil--
>>NOORY: Bingo,
it's right there.
>>HOFF: -to take care
of the population.
>>NOORY: Frank, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>HOFF: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Fascinating,
Atlantis, it is out there.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]